README.md, before:

# Static Sites with Authentication

## Quick Reference

| Component | [Environment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deployment_environment) | Location |
| - | - | - |
| App | Local | [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) |
| App | Production | [https://code-review.fly.dev](https://code-review.fly.dev) |

## Installation

```bash
mkdir -p ~/Projects && git clone git@github.com:marian13/static_sites_with_authentication.git
```

## Requirements

- [Task](https://taskfile.dev/).

- Ruby version manager ([asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) is preferred).

- Node.js version manager ([asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) is preferred).

- [Ruby 3.1.0](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2021/12/25/ruby-3-1-0-released/).

- [Node.js v18.12.1](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/changelogs/CHANGELOG_V18.md#18.12.1).

## Setup

```bash
cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task install
```

## Development

### How to start a local backend server?

- Run the following command:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task backend:start
  ```

- Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) in your browser.

**NOTE:** Static pages are NOT hot-reloaded.

### How to start a local static pages server with hot reloading?

- Run the following:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task static_sites:rules:start
  ```

- Open [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/) in your browser.

**NOTE:** Hot-reloaded `rules` server has no backend access.

## Seeds

### How to create a user locally?

- Open Rails console:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && bundle exec rails console
  ```

- Execute the command below:

  ```ruby
  User.create!(email: "user@example.com", password: "secret")
  ```

- Don't forget to replace email and password.

## Tech Stack

### Application

- [Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/).

- [Devise](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise).

- [high_voltage](https://github.com/thoughtbot/high_voltage).

- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/quick-start/).

- [A starter for the "Code Notes" Gatsby theme](https://github.com/mrmartineau/gatsby-starter-code-notes).

- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/).

### Databases

- [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html).

### Tests

- [RSpec](https://rspec.info/).

### Task runner

- [Task](https://taskfile.dev/).

### Hosting

- [Fly.io](https://fly.io/).

Commit message:

refactor(static_sites): split server command to simplify new static site addition

README.md, after:

# Static Sites with Authentication

## Quick Reference

| Component | [Environment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deployment_environment) | Location |
| - | - | - |
| App | Local | [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) |
| App | Production | [https://code-review.fly.dev](https://code-review.fly.dev) |

## Installation

```bash
mkdir -p ~/Projects && git clone git@github.com:marian13/static_sites_with_authentication.git
```

## Requirements

- [Task](https://taskfile.dev).

- Ruby version manager ([asdf](https://asdf-vm.com) is preferred).

- Node.js version manager ([asdf](https://asdf-vm.com) is preferred).

- [Ruby 3.1.0](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2021/12/25/ruby-3-1-0-released).

- [Node.js v18.12.1](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/changelogs/CHANGELOG_V18.md#18.12.1).

## Setup

```bash
cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task install
```

## Development

### How to start a local backend server?

- Run the following command:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task backend:start
  ```

- Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

**NOTE:** Static sites are NOT hot-reloaded.

### How to start a local static sites server with hot reloading?

- For example, for the `rules` static site, the command looks like so:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && task static_sites:rules:start
  ```

- Open [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) in your browser.

**NOTE:** Hot-reloaded `rules` server has no backend access.

### How to add a new static site?

- Check how the `static_sites:rules:build` command is implemented and used in the Taskfile.

- Add new static site by analogy.

## Seeds

### How to create a user locally?

- Open Rails console:

  ```bash
  cd ~/Projects/static_sites_with_authentication && bundle exec rails console
  ```

- Execute the command below:

  ```ruby
  User.create!(email: "user@example.com", password: "secret")
  ```

- Don't forget to replace email and password.

## Tech Stack

### Application

- [Rails](https://rubyonrails.org).

- [Devise](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise).

- [high_voltage](https://github.com/thoughtbot/high_voltage).

- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/quick-start).

- [A starter for the "Code Notes" Gatsby theme](https://github.com/mrmartineau/gatsby-starter-code-notes).

- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com).

### Databases

- [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html).

### Tests

- [RSpec](https://rspec.info).

### Task runner

- [Task](https://taskfile.dev).

### Hosting

- [Fly.io](https://fly.io).
